A spokesman for the
Israeli Defense Forces.
The top spokesperson
says that it will start
firing more airstrikes
starting from today
and that a ground invasion
will begin once
the military conditions are optimal.
Well, joining me
now is the former State
Department negotiator
for the Middle East, Aaron David Miller,
along with former Department of Homeland
Security official Juliette Kayyem.
And thanks very much to you both.
Let me just start, Aaron, with you.
We know that Israel has been ready
to go for days at the military,
has been ready
a state of incredible readiness.
And when they
they now are giving 24 hour
leaves, 2 to 2 soldiers.
We've heard they come in, they come out.
I mean, they are ready.
And yet they have not yet gone.
What do you think is giving the pause?
Well, first of all, Aaron,
thanks for having me.
A lot of factors.
I think number one, there's weather.
Number two,
there's Israeli indecision
about the breadth and depth
that precisely
how they're going to do this.
Number three,
the president's visit,
I think, may have actually engendered
a good bit of thinking
on the part of the Israelis with respect
to the way they're going to do this.
And finally, I think the cruelest dilemma
is hostages.
Israelis are torn between
their commitment
not necessarily
to avenging the deaths of four,
1400 people,
but to preempting the possibility
this could ever happen again on one hand
and their commitment
to redeem the living.
I mean, you've been there now.
You've seen
you've talked to the families,
hostage, hostage redemption,
retrieving Israeli soldiers
and civilians dead
or alive from the battlefield
is a national priority.
So this is the cruelest dilemma of all.
Although I think in the end,
undermining
Hamas and destroying its capacity
to govern in Gaza
will probably be the greater priority.
And yes,
and it
it appears they've been making that
that as clear as they can.
And as I said,
the families of the hostages,
sometimes with anger,
sometimes with acceptance,
seem to know
that there isn't
any ambiguity there for them,
which only one can imagine
that cruel reality
for those for those families
who are so desperately hoping.
Juliet, The thing is,
of course, as Israel
waits, is ready
and waits, there's obviously
the military issue of that,
which is how long
can you be at such a state of readiness
with 360,000 people on a border?
And wait, know,
how long can you stay like,
you know, down on the start moon
On the start line. Right.
There's also the question
that as they wait,
the frustration builds around the world.
The protests that we've seen
obviously have been widespread
around the region.
But one particular one
that stood out to me
that I keep mentioning
because I think the scale
just really hits me.
80,000 people
protesting out
outside the consulate in Adana, Turkey.
Adana Turkey is not a place
that most people in the United States
even heard of. 80,000 people.
They had to shut that consulate.
So what are the risks here? Yeah.
The risks are multiple.
I think these are the ones that
the President Biden has been trying
to highlight
to the Israelis
based essentially on our lessons
in Afghanistan.
One is after being attacked,
after we were attacked on 911,
one is what is the end game?
It is one thing to say,
you know,
for those of us in counterterrorism,
we are going to make Hamas not able
to govern in Gaza, then what right is is
are the Israelis actually anticipating
in Gaza?
And if not, then then who is right?
So that's the first part.
The second is
the issue of civilian deaths.
You know, going back 20 years, we were
we were probably not thinking about what
civilian deaths meant in Afghanistan.
Well,
it essentially meant
that you were radicalizing populations
that might not
otherwise have been radicalized.
So, you know, obviously,
the human rights issues are key.
And and
the third is,
if you don't have an answer
to the first two questions,
how do you stop a regional conflict
if you you know, Biden's success
so far, I have to
say, is in is what's not happened.
Right.
I mean, in other words,
the Israelis have not gone in yet.
There hasn't been.
There's there's regional
anger and there's lots of criticism.
But you haven't had the kind of unrest
that one might have
anticipated last Saturday.
So that's that's the dialog
that has to go on it.
But but
what's the endgame here for Israel?
You're not going to govern God's is Gaza.
I mean, that's that's their challenge.
And but, Erin, it also
comes as there's been this,
you know,
incredible backlash in the United States.
It's not just pro-Palestinian rallies.
Of course.
It's it's horrific.
Things like
Polo Sandoval was just reporting
with the head of a synagogue
being stabbed to death outside her home.
I mean,
there are horrific
things happening right?
There is
there is a backlash
that that is that is building.
And the reality of it is, is
how dangerous is this in the U.S.?
Erin.
Well, here and that's a
that's a question
you and I could talk about
probably for days.
Given the divisiveness, the polarization,
hate speech, social media,
the behavior of certain
American politicians
which encourage this,
I think is extremely dangerous.
Islamophobia and anti-Semitism.
And that's
those currents
clearly are going to be fed
by what happened
on October 7th and Israel's response
in Gaza.
No question about that.
Our own broken house, frankly, is in
some respects
as much on display in the president.
I think, in his remarks
day before yesterday
addressed this question.
But I think it's absolutely critical
that we continue to talk
about the importance
of tolerance, of mutual understanding.
And, of course,
as Juliette notes,
Department of Homeland Security, the FBI
follow these these groups.
If, in fact,
you're talking about organized responses
as closely as possible.
Right. Right.
And the president did,
of course, talk about
how horrible both things
are Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, that
the US must not succumb to those.
Thank you both so very much.